Refresh of the PWA docs (#2334)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/service-workers.md

---
title: Use Service Workers to manage network requests
description: Service Workers are Web Workers that help improve performance, respond to varying network conditions, and increase connectivity with your web application.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: pwa
ms.date: 11/28/2022
---
# Use Service Workers to manage network requests

Service Workers are a special type of [Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) with the ability to intercept, modify, and respond to network requests using the `Fetch` API.  Service Workers can access the `Cache` API, and asynchronous client-side data stores, such as `IndexedDB`, to store resources.

> Service Workers can make your PWA faster by caching resources locally and they can also make your PWA more reliable by making it network-independent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Workers can make your PWA faster by caching resources locally, and they can also make your PWA more reliable by making it network-independent.
```

The first time a user accesses your PWA, its Service Worker is installed. The Service Worker then runs in parallel to your app, and can continue doing work even when your app is not running.

> Service Workers are mostly responsible for intercepting, modifying, and responding to network requests They can be alerted when the app tries to load a resource from the server, or sends a request to get data from the server. When this happens, a Service Worker can decide to let the request go to the server, or intercept it and return a response from the cache instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Workers are responsible for intercepting, modifying, and responding to network requests. They can be alerted when the app tries to load a resource from the server, or sends a request to get data from the server. When this happens, a Service Worker can decide to let the request go to the server, or intercept it and return a response from the cache instead.
```

> ![High level architecture diagram showing that the service worker is in between the app, on one side, and the network and cache store, on the other side.](../media/sw-architecture.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![High-level architecture diagram showing that the service worker is in between the app and the network and cache store](../media/sw-architecture.png)
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Register a Service Worker

Similar to other Web Workers, Service Workers must exist in a separate file. You reference this file when registering the Service Worker, as shown in the following code:

```javascript
if ("serviceWorker" in navigator) {

>     navigator.serviceWorker.register( "/serviceworker.js");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    navigator.serviceWorker.register("/serviceworker.js");
```

}
```

> The web browser that's running your PWA may provide different levels of support for Service Workers. Additionally, the context in which your PWA is running may not be secure. As such, it's a good practice to test for the existence of the `navigator.serviceWorker` object before running any Service Worker-related code. In the above code, a Service Worker is registered using the `serviceworker.js` file located at the root of the site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web browser that's running your PWA may provide different levels of support for Service Workers. Also, the context in which your PWA is running might not be secure. As such, it's a good practice to test for the existence of the `navigator.serviceWorker` object before running any Service Worker-related code. In the above code, a Service Worker is registered by using the `serviceworker.js` file that's located at the root of the site.
```
Acrolinx would suggest 'also'

'may' is subtle, no hard & fast rule.  I probably never use it but write in a more forceful less gentle way.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/can-may - sometimes this applies: "Don't use may, which might be interpreted as providing permission."

> Make sure to place the Service Worker file in the highest-level directory that you want it to manage.  Such a directory is called the _scope_ of the Service Worker.  In the previous code, the file is stored in the root directory of your app, and the Service Worker manages all pages under the app's domain name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to place the Service Worker file in the highest-level directory that you want it to manage.  Such a directory is called the _scope_ of the Service Worker.  In the previous code, the file is stored in the root directory of your app, and the Service Worker manages all pages that are under the app's domain name.
```

If the Service Worker file was stored in a `js` directory, the scope of the Service Worker would be limited to the `js` directory and any subdirectories.  As a best practice, place the Service Worker file in the root of your app, unless you need to reduce the scope of your Service Worker.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Intercept requests

The main event that you use in a Service Worker is the `fetch` event. The `fetch` event runs every time the browser your app runs in attempts to access content within the scope of the Service Worker.

> The following code shows how to add a listener to the fetch event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows how to add a listener to the `fetch` event:
```

> 1.  The browser downloads the JavaScript file, installs the Service Worker, and triggers the `install` event. You can use the `install` event to pre-cache any important and long-lived files, such as CSS files, JavaScript files, logo images, offline pages, and so on from your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  The browser downloads the JavaScript file, installs the Service Worker, and triggers the `install` event. You can use the `install` event to pre-cache any important and long-lived files (such as CSS files, JavaScript files, logo images, or offline pages) from your website.
```
"such as" is redun. w/ "and so on"

    ```javascript
    self.addEventListener("install", event => {
        console.log("WORKER: install event in progress.");
    });
    ```

1.  The Service Worker is activated, which triggers the `activate` event.  Use this event to clean up outdated caches.

    ```javascript
    self.addEventListener("activate", event => {
        console.log("WORKER: activate event in progress.");
    });
    ```

1.  The Service Worker is ready to run when the page is refreshed or when the user goes to a new page on the site. If you want to run the Service Worker without waiting, use the `self.skipWaiting()` method during the `install` event, as follows:

    ```javascript
    self.addEventListener("install", event => {
        self.skipWaiting();
        // …
    });
    ```

1.  The Service Worker is now running and can listen to `fetch` events.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Pre-cache resources

> When a user accesses your app for the first time, the app's Service Worker is installed. Use the `install` event in your Service Worker to detect when this occurs, and cache all the static resources your app needs. Caching your app's static resources, such as the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code needed by the start page, makes it possible to run your app even when the user's device is offline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user accesses your app for the first time, the app's Service Worker is installed. Use the `install` event in your Service Worker to detect when this occurs, and cache all the static resources your app needs. Caching your app's static resources (such as the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code that are needed by the start page) makes it possible for your app to run even when the user's device is offline.
```
alt:
Caching your app's static resources (such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code) that are needed by the start page makes it possible for your app to run even when the user's device is offline.

To cache your app's resources, use the global `caches` object and the `cache.addAll` method as shown below:

```javascript
// The name of the cache your app uses.
const CACHE_NAME = "my-app-cache";
// The list of static files your app needs to start.
const PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES = ["/", "styles.css", "app.js"];

// Listen to the `install` event.
self.addEventListener("install", event => {
  async function preCacheResources() {
    // Open the app's cache.
    const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
    // Cache all static resources.
    cache.addAll(PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES);
  }

  event.waitUntil(preCacheResources());
});
```

Note that after the initial installation, the `install` event does not run again. To update your Service Worker's code, see [Update your Service Worker](#update-your-service-worker).

> Now use the `fetch` event to return the static resources from the cache instead of loading them again from the network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can use the `fetch` event to return the static resources from the cache, instead of loading them again from the network:
```

```javascript
self.addEventListener("fetch", event => {
  async function returnCachedResource() {
    // Open the app's cache.
    const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
    // Find the response that was pre-cached during the `install` event.
    const cachedResponse = await cache.match(event.request.url);

    if (cachedResponse) {
      // Return the resource.
      return cachedResponse;
    } else {

>       // If the resource was not found in the cache. Try the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // The resource wasn't found in the cache, so try the network.
```

      const fetchResponse = await fetch(event.request.url);
      // Put the response in cache.
      cache.put(event.request.url, fetchResponse.clone());
      // And return the response.
      return fetchResponse.
    }
  }

  event.respondWith(returnCachedResource());
});
```

> For brevity, the above code example does not handle the cases where getting the request URL from the network failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For brevity, the above code example doesn't handle the cases where getting the request URL from the network failed.
```

```javascript
// The name of the cache your app uses.
const CACHE_NAME = "my-app-cache";
// The list of static files your app needs to start.
// Note the offline page in this list.
const PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES = ["/", "styles.css", "app.js", "/offline"];

// Listen to the `install` event.
self.addEventListener("install", event => {
  async function preCacheResources() {
    // Open the app's cache.
    const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
    // Cache all static resources.
    cache.addAll(PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES);
  }

  event.waitUntil(preCacheResources());
});

self.addEventListener("fetch", event => {
  async function navigateOrDisplayOfflinePage() {
    try {
      // Try to load the page from the network.
      const networkResponse = await fetch(event.request);
      return networkResponse;
    } catch (error) {
      // The network call failed, the device is offline.
      const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
      const cachedResponse = await cache.match("/offline");
      return cachedResponse;
    }
  }

>   // We only want to call event.respondWith() if this is a navigation request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Only call event.respondWith() if this is a navigation request.
```

  // for an HTML page.
  if (event.request.mode === 'navigate') {
    event.respondWith(navigateOrDisplayOfflinePage());
  }
});
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Update your Service Worker

#### Install a new Service Worker version

If you make changes to your Service Worker code and deploy the new Service Worker file to your web server, your users' devices will start using the new Service Worker gradually.

> Every time a user navigates to one of your app's pages, the browser that's running the app checks if a new version of the Service Worker is available on the server. The browser detects new versions by comparing the contents between the existing Service Worker and the new Service Worker. When a change is detected, the new Service Worker is installed (its `install` event is triggered) and then waits for the existing Service Worker to stop being used on the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time a user navigates to one of your app's pages, the browser that's running the app checks if a new version of the Service Worker is available on the server. The browser detects new versions by comparing the contents between the existing Service Worker and the new Service Worker. When a change is detected, the new Service Worker is installed (its `install` event is triggered), and then the new Service Worker waits for the existing Service Worker to stop being used on the device.
```

In practice, this means that there can be two Service Workers running at the same time, but only one intercepts the app's network requests. When the app is closed, the existing Service Worker stops being used. The next time the app is opened, the new Service Worker is activated. The `activate` event is triggered, and the new Service Worker starts intercepting `fetch` events.

> You can forcefully activate the new Service Worker as soon as it's installed by using `self.skipWaiting()` in your Service Worker's `install` event handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can forcefully activate the new Service Worker as soon as it's installed, by using `self.skipWaiting()` in your Service Worker's `install` event handler.
```

To learn more about how Service Workers update, see [Updating the service worker](https://web.dev/service-worker-lifecycle#updates) on web.dev.

#### Update your cached static files

When pre-caching static resources such as CSS stylesheet files, as described in [Pre-cache resources](#pre-cache-resources), your app only uses the cached versions of the files and doesn't try to download new versions.

> To make sure users get the latest changes to the static resources used by your app, use a cache busting naming convention and update your Service Worker code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure users get the latest changes to the static resources that are used by your app, use a cache busting naming convention and update your Service Worker code.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which
"Global tip: Include _that_ even if the sentence is clear without it. It helps to clarify the sentence structure."

> Cache-busting means that each static file is named according to its version. This can be achieved in various ways by usually involves using a build tool that reads the content of a file and generates a unique ID based on the content which can be used to name the file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Cache-busting_ means that each static file is named according to its version. This can be achieved in various ways by usually involves using a build tool that reads the content of a file and generates a unique ID based on the content which can be used to name the file. 
```

> Next, update your Service Worker code to cache the new static resources on `install`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, update your Service Worker code to cache the new static resources during `install`:
```
alt:
upon install
when the S W is installed

// Listen to the `install` event.
self.addEventListener("install", event => {
  async function preCacheResources() {
    // Open the app's cache.
    const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
    // Cache the new static resources.
    cache.addAll(PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES);
  }

  event.waitUntil(preCacheResources());
});

// Listen to the `activate` event to clear old caches.
self.addEventListener("activate", event => {
  async function deleteOldCaches() {
    // List all caches by their names.
    const names = await caches.keys();
    await Promise.all(names.map(name => {
      if (name !== CACHE_NAME) {
        // If a cache's name is the current name, delete it.
        return caches.delete(name);
      }
    }));
  }

  event.waitUntil(deleteOldCaches());
});
```

Compare the `CACHE_NAME` and `PRE_CACHED_RESOURCES` values between the above code snippet and the one in [Pre-cache resources](#pre-cache-resources). When this new Service Worker is installed, a new cache will be created and the new static resources will be downloaded and cached. When the Service Worker is activated, the old cache will be deleted. At this point, the user will have the new version of the app.

> Making changes to your Service Worker can sometimes be complex. Use a library such as [Workbox](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/) to simplify your static resources build step and Service Worker code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making changes to your Service Worker can sometimes be complex. Use a library such as [Workbox](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/) to simplify your static resources build step and your Service Worker code.
```
based on my having to try 2-3 times before able to parse

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Test for network connections in your PWA

It's helpful to know when a network connection is available, in order to synchronize data or inform users that the network status has changed.

Use the following options to test for network connectivity:

#### navigator.onLine

The `navigator.onLine` property is a boolean that lets you know the current status of the network. If the value is `true`, the user is online; otherwise, the user is offline.

To learn more, see [navigator.onLine](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/NavigatorOnLine) on MDN.

#### Online and Offline Events

You can take action when your network connectivity changes.  You can listen and take action in response to network events.  The events are available on the `window`, `document`, and `document.body` elements, as shown below:

```javascript
window.addEventListener("online",  function(){
    console.log("You are online!");
});
window.addEventListener("offline", function(){
    console.log("Oh no, you lost your network connection.");
});
```

> To learn more, see [Online and Offline Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/NavigatorOnLine/Online_and_offline_events) on MDN.

Reviewer: link isn't working, to confirm link text.  repro: 
go to:
https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/NavigatorOnLine/Online_and_offline_events
get redir'd to:
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/onLine - "Navigator.onLine", not "Online and Offline Events".

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Other capabilities

A Service Worker's main responsibility is to make your app faster and more reliable in the event of an unstable network connection. Service Workers mostly use the `fetch` event and `Cache` API to do this, but they can use other APIs for advanced scenarios, such as:

* Background synchronization of data.
* Periodic synchronization of data.
* Large background file downloads.

> * Push messages handling and notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Handling and notifications of Push messages.
```
not sure.  orig is unclear if "Push" is a regular English word

#### Background synchronization

Use the Background Sync API to allow users to continue using your app and perform actions even when the user's device is offline.

For example, an email app can let its users compose and send messages at any time. The app frontend can try to send the message right away, and if the device is offline, the service worker can catch the failed request and use the Background Sync API to defer the task until connected.

To learn more, see [Use the Background Sync API to synchronize data with the server](background-syncs.md#use-the-background-sync-api-to-synchronize-data-with-the-server).

#### Period background synchronization

> The Periodic Background Sync API lets PWAs retrieve fresh content periodically, in the background, so users can immediately access it when they later open the app again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Periodic Background Sync API lets PWAs retrieve fresh content periodically, in the background, so users can immediately access the content when they later open the app again.
```

> Using the Periodic Background Sync API, PWAs don't have to download new content (such as new articles) while the user is using the app.  Downloading content could slow down the experience, so instead, retrieve the content at a more convenient time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the Periodic Background Sync API, PWAs don't have to download new content (such as new articles) while the user is using the app.  Downloading content could slow down the experience, so instead, the app can retrieve the content at a more convenient time.
```
optional/judgment:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

To learn more, see [Use the Periodic Background Sync API to regularly get fresh content](background-syncs.md#use-the-periodic-background-sync-api-to-regularly-get-fresh-content).

#### Large background file downloads

The Background Fetch API allows PWAs to completely delegate downloading large amounts of data to the browser engine. This way, the app and service worker don't have to be running at all while the download is in progress.

This API is useful for apps that let users download large files (like music, movies, or podcasts) for offline use cases. Because the download is delegated to the browser engine, which knows how to handle a flaky connection or even a complete loss of connectivity, it can pause and resume the download when necessary.

To learn more, see [Use the Background Fetch API to fetch large files when the app or service worker isn't running](background-syncs.md#use-the-background-fetch-api-to-fetch-large-files-when-the-app-or-service-worker-isnt-running).

#### Push messages

> Push messages can be sent to your users without them having to be using the app at the time. A Service Worker can listen to push messages sent by your server even if the app isn't running, and display a notification in the operating system's notification center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push messages can be sent to your users without them having to be using the app at the time. A Service Worker can listen to push messages that are sent by your server even if the app isn't running, and display a notification in the operating system's notification center.
```

To learn more, see [Add push notifications to your PWA](notifications-badges.md#add-push-notifications-to-your-pwa).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Debug with DevTools

> Using Microsoft Edge DevTools, you can see if your Service Worker has been registered correctly and which lifecycle state it's currently in. Additionally, you can debug the JavaScript code in your Service Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Microsoft Edge DevTools, you can see if your Service Worker has been registered correctly, and see which lifecycle state the Service Worker is currently in. Also, you can debug the JavaScript code in your Service Worker.
```

> To learn more, see [Debug your service worker](debug.md#debug-your-service-worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, see [Debug your Service Worker](debug.md#debug-your-service-worker).
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

*   [Making PWAs work offline with Service workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Offline_Service_workers)
*   [How to make PWAs re-engageable using Notifications and Push](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Re-engageable_Notifications_Push)

> *  Add something about Workbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Workbox. <!-- TODO: link -->
```
